# Principles of development of public welfare projects

The Public Welfare Project Development Principles are a set of suggested principles for software project development and its development process that encourage public welfare.

In addition to the principle itself, it also includes some benefits that can be obtained by companies or project developers who adhere to this principle, as well as community norms.

The principle of public welfare project development is an encouraging principle and does not force restrictions on a certain project. The community also follows the principle of deletion over accusation.

## Purpose

The primary purpose of the public welfare project development principles is to solve the financial difficulties of open source projects or independent open source project developers.
Protect high-quality developers and high-quality open source projects by providing direct financial support to open source project maintainers so that they can be continuously updated and maintained.
In addition, open source project developers should also follow principles to invest benefits and additional funds into public welfare causes.

The main objectives of the development principles of public welfare projects are as follows:

The core of establishing and adhering to the principles of public welfare project development is to stimulate open source project development and public welfare undertakings.
In order to achieve this core, a large amount of financial support for projects and project developers is inevitable. In order to encourage companies to invest in excellent open source project maintenance and public welfare undertakings, the public welfare project development principles provide the following goals:

1. Provide financial support for high-quality open source projects. High-quality open source projects can create benefits for commercial companies, and commercial companies do not need to bear additional employee salary and rights protection, saving costs for commercial companies that invest financial support.
2. Provide community influence and copyright influence to open source project developers (copyright influence refers to using community influence to protect developers’ visibility and influence in the industry in areas or situations where copyright cannot be protected by law)
3. Use charitable acts to deduct taxes for commercial companies, thereby reducing the tax burden of commercial companies, but this requires legal support from the community (many countries allow commercial companies to deduct taxes by investing in charity, thereby reducing the government's financial expenditure)
4. Create better educational resources. Open source projects are a good opportunity for many learners to practice, so they have high educational significance.
5. Data helps each other. Many software and projects require a large amount of user data to support each other. Projects that follow the principles or developers can share user data through privacy calculations and community supervision to build a public welfare big data community (see the public welfare big data community for details) Data Community Principles)

## Content overview

In order to realize the public welfare nature of software projects, software projects or projects should follow the following principles:

### Principle 1: Encourage the use of loose open source protocols
Use a permissive open source license such as MIT or Apache License 2.0 to allow commercial and educational use of open source projects.

### Principle 2: Encourage the use of AIGC
AIGC can be used in projects while ensuring code quality, and prompt words or creative ideas can be provided in some codes generated by AIGC, thereby accelerating the learning process of AIGC for other developers. It can also speed up the update of community projects.

### Principle 3: Encourage informal cooperation with commercial companies
Project developers can encourage project advancement by reaching sponsorship partnerships with open, transparent, verbal and commercial companies in the community. For example, after commercial companies publish functional requirements and sponsorship funds in the community, developers provide functions and data to obtain sponsorship.

### Principle 4: Encourage data fairness
When project developers and project maintainers release code and data sets, they should take the initiative to ensure data fairness or use community-recognized methods to ensure data accuracy. Methods and evidence for verifying data validity can also be provided to ensure that the data has not been modified or confused.

### Principle 5: Encourage public welfare and educational purposes
The code and data sets owned by the project should be actively used for educational and public welfare purposes, and commercial organizations or institutions recognized by the community should assume public obligations, such as educational obligations and public welfare obligations.

### Principle 6: Encourage passive exemption from liability
Passive disclaimer means that if community resources and project resources are used for illegal purposes or purposes that are not recognized by the community, the community should delete the relevant content instead of blaming the subject of the fact. Even if the party using the resources actually engages in illegal behavior or conduct that is not recognized by the community, the community should not hold it accountable. Instead, it should delete the data traces caused by this behavior or behavior in the community and further avoid similar situations. occur.

### Principle 7: Encourage community building
The community is obliged to award honors or financial rewards to those who have made positive contributions to community building, such as legal experts who have contributed to community rules.